Real quick, we need to lock down
the deleting of items to only people who are
the owners of that item, or someone that has
either an admin privilege or a item delete privilege.
So, we're gonna open up our back end
and go into mutation.js
and find the delete item method that we wrote.
You notice that right here, we have a number two,
check if they own that item, or have the permissions.
So, we've done a to do.
Before I even get into the logic of that,
we need to figure out how to handle errors
on this little delete button,
because if someone doesn't have permission to delete it
we need to alert them and let them know.
So, there a couple options you can use to do that,
but it's a little bit tricky
when you have a small UI like a button
because you can't really display the error
inside of that button.
So what I'm going to show you how to do
is how to catch that error in our frontend
and then display that via an alert dialogue,
or you could pop it up over top in an apollo box
or anything like that.
So, let's just kind of short circuit this deleteItem
to throw an error all the time,
throw new Error,
you aren't allowed.
Good, then we'll flip over to our front end here
and open up DeleteItem.js
And we're going to, let's just try it right now,
without any sort of error handling.
So I'm going to go ahead and delete it, press okay.
And nothing happens on the front end, but you can see
that the error is logged into the console here
that says GraphQL error, you're not allowed.
Well, the way that you can catch that error is,
you can go down to where you run this method,
which is deleteItem, and you could either do,
like, if this was an async function you could
wrap a tryCatch around it,
but that's no way to live your life, so.
The tryCatch is okay, but almost always I find the tryCatch
to be a little bit verbose.
The one kind of cool thing about this deleteItem
is that it's a promise,
and if you ever want to catch errors that promises have,
you simply just tag a .catch onto the end,
you can catch the error, and you can do what you want
with that error.
And in our case you can just alert err.message
and that should then, when you try to delete something,
press okay, it gives you the actual GraphQL error,
you are not allowed.
So any error that we throw on the server
will be caught right here,
and then it will be shown to the user,
and then they can go along their merry way.
So that's one thing we've done there,
let's flip back to our back end now
and delete that short circuit there.
Now, here is where we want to check that they have.
So, first thing is that we actually need to
check if the owner owns it.
Now, this gets a little bit hairy,
because we want to check either if they own it
or if they have the permissions.
And doing all of this logic
inside of an if statement makes me loopy.
So what I like to do is just to
create some separate variables first.
So, const ownsItem and we'll just say the item.user.id
is equal to ctx.request.userId
and then we'll have a boolean there
that's either true or false
and then we'll have another one,
we'll say const hasPermissions
and in that case, we take the ctx.request.user.permissions
and we're going to see if they have any of the ones
that we want.
In this case, we can't use our handy dandy
little util function, because that one
will throw the error for us,
and we want to check if it's either or
so we can do the logic right inside of here.
We'll use some, and we'll loop over
all of their permissions.
We'll take the permission, and we'll check if it's either
in an array of admin or itemdelete.includes permission
So you see how this is pretty funky as well,
this is why I don't like to do it in an if statement
because this alone took me a couple stabs
at actually trying to figure it out,
but essentially we're looping over every single one
and we're checking if at least one
so some will check if at least one is true,
so here let me do a little simple example outside of that.
We'll say, dog and cat
and we'll say some,
we'll call it a pet, and we'll say,
if the pet is in a bird
or a...
snake
.includes the pet
and that's going to return false, right,
because there's no overlap between those two things.
But, if there was also a cat in here, that will return true,
because there is at least one of these
in what we're looking for, right.
So that's what we're doing here.
And now we've got these two booleans
and we can say, if ownsItem...
or hasPermissions
then we'll continue on our day
else we can throw a new Error
You don't have permission to do that.
And that should work.
Obviously not, we're going to leave it at that
with that empty if statement,
that's a bit of a code smell, so let's get rid of this else
get rid of the nothing, and then change this if statement
to say if they don't own it, and don't has permissions,
then throw the error that we have there.
And that should be good, let's go back to this item here.
Delete it, okay.
Cannot read property id of undefined?
Where is that coming from?
So we've got this, cannot read id of undefined
a mutation JS on line 54, go to line 54,
so here we're trying to read the id of user,
and it looks like when we queried the item,
we didn't ask for the user, we only asked for the id
and the title of the user.
So we can just make that get the user,
and from each user we want to grab the id
and that should fix it for us.
Now, when I delete, it, okay.
Boom, gone. In good shape.
And that is the end of the permissions one.
I'll see you in the next videos.